OPTION 1 (Future Work)
RQ: Can the responsive gaze of a robotic arm enhance perceptions of teamwork in a collaborative task?

Condition 1 - “Robotic arm with gaze responsiveness”: In this condition, the robot detects the gaze behaviors of its human teammates and responds accordingly.
Detects a human is looking at the robot itself -> The robot gazes back at the human (mutual gaze)
Detects a human is looking at the tower -> The robot gazes at the tower (joint attention)
Condition 2 - “Robotic arm without gaze responsiveness”: In this condition, the robot does not detect any gaze of the human teammates.


—-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPTION 2 (Option Chosen)

RQ: In a collaborative task, what is the impact of a robotic arm conveying awareness and attention on the perceptions of teamwork?

H1: A robot that performs attentive behaviors will improve human’s perceptions of teamwork compared to a robot that does not perform attentive behaviors.

H2: The performance of teams in which the robot performs attentive behaviors will be similar to the teams in which the robot does not perform attentive behaviors.

What are the independent variables?
Attentiveness/awareness of the robot (manipulated in within-subjects design: each subject performs both conditions)

Condition 1 - “Attentive/aware robot”: In this condition, the robot performs gaze behaviors to convey attention/awareness of what others are doing.
The robot gazes at each human when it is their turn to play (ideally before they actually start doing their action);
The robot gazes at the tower when each human is currently performing his action.

Condition 2 - “Non-attentive robot”: The robot does not employ any gaze behavior and does not demonstrate any attention/awareness when it’s the turn of human teammates.

What are the dependent measures?
Completion time for the whole puzzle
Time took by each player for each piece
Gaze of each player
Fluency
Cohesion
Group trust
Belonging

Description of the setup and the robot’s behavior
Round table
Triadic interaction between two humans and one robotic arm
Fixed positions for everyone
Fixed positions for the blocks (in the case of the robot, the position of the blocks is always the same)
Fixed position for the tower
The robot uses one external camera to compute when each human is (or is not) performing an action [OpenPose]
There are three tower configuration (or puzzle goals)
